chore: ambassador program (FAQ) (#361)
asyncapi/community: AMBASSADOR_ORGANIZATION.md

This document covers the organizational and operational aspects of the AsyncAPI Ambassador Program.

## FAQ

### What is the AsyncAPI Ambassador Program?

The AsyncAPI Ambassador Program aims to bring AsyncAPI closer to the users and potential users of the project. Provide users and community members with the necessary tools and resources:

- To promote cooperation between users and disseminate the necessary tools to any specification user.
- To be engaged with the project in some way, either as a contributor, blogger, speaker, etc.
- To be willing to speak at community events or write technical content, such as blog posts, solving community needs.
- To ensure that with the community’s growth, we also grow a list of people in the community that are welcoming and help spread the knowledge about the project.

### How does the program work?

- The ambassador selection process will, as always, be as transparent as possible.
- The model currently in place for adding members to the Technical Steering Committee through PR will be used.

> - The TSC or their designees will evaluate applications according to the compliance with the requirements.

Reviewer: maybe add that it will be done through a PR flow

- All ambassador information will be added through PR to the list used to show people on the AsyncAPI website.

### Requirements to become an AsyncAPI Ambassador:

> To be an official AsyncAPI ambassador, there is no more important requirement than having the desire to work and spread the AsyncAPI tools.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To be an official AsyncAPI ambassador, there is no more important requirement than having the desire to work and spread the message about AsyncAPI specification and tools.
```

- Be in tune with AsyncAPI's mission and values.

> - Always respect the code of conduct.

Reviewer: can you link code of conduct here please?

- Be active in your role as an ambassador.
- **Guidelines** for AsyncAPI Ambassadors: 

>     The participation will be determined and checked by quarters. Understood as a minimum contribution, one of the following requirements must be met each quarter: 

Reviewer: just to make sure I understand these guidelines. Maybe we could ease the description a bit

like:
- expectation is that ambassador writes 4 articles or performs 4 presentations about AsyncAPI in a year. At least one of those every quarter. So can be 2 articles and 2 presentations throughout entire year, even if all of them are in span of just 2 months
- if you were accepted as ambassador on 5th of May 2022, it means you did ☝🏼 already and on 5th of May 2023 we will check again if you did this again after 5th of May 2021

did I  understand the guidelines section correct?

and if before 5th of May 2022 you did more than 4 contributions, they do not count for post 5th of May 2022 period. Right?

Author: > if you were accepted as ambassador on 5th of May 2022, it means you did ☝🏼 already and on 5th of May 2023 we will check again if you did this again after 5th of May 2021

Yes, but it would be: "we will check again if you did this again after 5th of May 2022". Right?

Author: > and if before 5th of May 2022 you did more than 4 contributions, they do not count for post 5th of May 2022 period. Right?

I think it could be cumulative, thus being a bit flexible, right?

Reviewer: I do not think so, as it is all about assuring regular contribution. So we can be flexible when appointing for the first time, but then after you appoint someone after least say 1.07.2022, then we should expect 4 new contributions until 1.07.2023

>     - One article on asyncapi.com or other domains. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - One article on asyncapi.com/blog or other domains. 
```

>     - One presentation at an event or workshop. Within it, AsyncAPI should appear at the core of the presentation. The presentation would never be used as a disguised marketing tool for other products/projects.

Reviewer: maybe we can add to the list another bullet item like:
- Other exceptional contribution that we did not identify yet and you should just let us know what that was

it is for cases like:
- driving GSoD initiative at scale as @alequetzalli did (amazing exceptional community contribution)
- someone getting a new platinum sponsor for the organization. Driving discussion and the entire process?

so cases where visibility of the community is increased... 🤔 

just thinking...so we basically have some path to increase the list of possible contributions

    
    **Note**: Candidates may accumulate events or items covering subsequent quarters.
         
     Examples: 

    1. If an ambassador publishes three articles about AsyncAPI in eight months, they will be ambassadors for another quarter more.
    2. If they do a presentation at an event or workshop and write one article about AsyncAPI in 4 months, they will be ambassadors for two more quarters. 
      
         The time as an ambassador is limited to one year, and it can be renewed. 

### Benefits of being an ambassador:

> - Receiving special swag for Ambassadors.

Reviewer: please specify what money is the package worth

- Receiving swags for participants of the conference or workshops.
- Free entry to AsyncAPI conferences.
- Community-wide recognition.
- All our respects for your contribution!

### Are you interested in becoming an official AsyncAPI Ambassador?

> The process of becoming an ambassador is very simple. Just click on the APPLY button at the bottom of the ambassador program’s page, and TSC will evaluate your candidacy!

Reviewer: it won't be as easy as `APPLY` 😄 
a person needs to go to `community` repo and open up a PR to edit `ambassadors.json` file

specify that PR can be created not only by ambassador candidate, but any community member can open up a PR to submit someones application (case when community member is to shy to get on the list)

Author: Ok, I modify this 🙂

## FAQ

### What is the AsyncAPI Ambassador Program?

The AsyncAPI Ambassador Program aims to bring AsyncAPI closer to both current users and potential new project users. It also aims to provide users and community members with the necessary tools and resources to:

- Promote user cooperation and disseminate the necessary tools to any specific user.
- Engage with the project in some way, either as a contributor, blogger, speaker, etc.
- Speak at community events or write technical content (i.e., blog posts) that solves community needs.
- Nurture community growth and a welcoming environment to spread knowledge about the project.

### How does the program work?

- The ambassador selection process will be as transparent as possible.
- The model currently in place for adding members to the Technical Steering Committee through PR will be used.
- The TSC or delegated maintainers of community repositories will evaluate applications according to compliance requirements via a traditional PR flow.
- All ambassador information will be displayed on the AsyncAPI website in a list after the PR is merged.

> ### Requirements to become an AsyncAPI Ambassador:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Requirements to become an AsyncAPI Ambassador
```

> The participation will be determined and checked annually. The minimum requirements for being an ambassador are as follows: make **4 contributions per year** in the form of articles, talks, videos, podcasts, presentations, driving initiatives, etc.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The participation will be determined and checked annually. The minimum requirement for being an ambassador is to make **4 contributions per year** in the form of articles, talks, videos, podcasts, presentations, driving initiatives, etc.
```

Some clarifications on the type of contributions:
    

>    - Articles, videos, and podcasts can be published on `asyncapi.com/blog` or other domains. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   - Articles, videos, and podcasts can be published on [asyncapi.com/blog](https://www.asyncapi.com/blog) or other domains. 
```

>    - Talks and presentations can be displayed at different events or workshops. Within it, AsyncAPI should appear at the core of the presentation. The   presentation would never be used as a disguised marketing tool for other products/projects.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   - Talks and presentations can be displayed at different events or workshops. Within it, AsyncAPI should appear at the core of the presentation. The presentation would never be used as a disguised marketing tool for other products/projects.
```

This document covers the organizational and operational aspects of the AsyncAPI Ambassador Program.

## FAQ

### What is the AsyncAPI Ambassador Program?

> The AsyncAPI Ambassador Program aims to bring AsyncAPI closer to the users and potential users of the project. Provide users and community members with the necessary tools and resources:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The AsyncAPI Ambassador Program aims to bring AsyncAPI closer to both users and potential users of the project. 

The AsyncAPI Ambassador Program aims to provide users and community members with the necessary tools and resources to:
```

Author: Thanks for the suggestion ❤️

> The AsyncAPI Ambassador Program aims to bring AsyncAPI closer to both users and potential users of the project. It also aims to provide users and community members with the necessary tools and resources to:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The AsyncAPI Ambassador Program aims to bring AsyncAPI closer to both current users and potential new project users. It also aims to provide users and community members with the necessary tools and resources to:
```

> - To promote cooperation between users and disseminate the necessary tools to any specification user.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Promote user cooperation and disseminate the necessary tools to any specific user.
```

> - To be engaged with the project in some way, either as a contributor, blogger, speaker, etc.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Engage with the project in some way, either as a contributor, blogger, speaker, etc.
```

> - To be willing to speak at community events or write technical content, such as blog posts, solving community needs.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Speak at community events or write technical content (i.e., blog posts) that solves community needs.
```

> - To ensure that with the community’s growth, we also grow a list of people in the community that are welcoming and help spread the knowledge about the project.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Nurture community growth and a welcoming environment to spread knowledge about the project.
```

### How does the program work?

> - The ambassador selection process will, as always, be as transparent as possible.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- The ambassador selection process will be as transparent as possible.
```

- The model currently in place for adding members to the Technical Steering Committee through PR will be used.

> - The TSC or their delegates maintainers of the community repositories will evaluate applications according to compliance with the requirements, and it will be done through a PR flow.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- The TSC or delegated maintainers of community repositories will evaluate applications according to compliance requirements via a traditional PR flow.
```

> - All ambassador information will be added through PR to the list used to show people on the AsyncAPI website.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- All ambassador information will be displayed on the AsyncAPI website in a list after the PR is merged.
```

### Requirements to become an AsyncAPI Ambassador:

> To be an official AsyncAPI ambassador, there is no more important requirement than having the desire to work and spread the message about AsyncAPI specification and tools.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To become an official AsyncAPI ambassador, there is no more important requirement than having the desire to work and spread the message about the AsyncAPI specification and its tools.
```

- Be in tune with AsyncAPI's mission and values.
- Always respect the [code of conduct](https://github.com/asyncapi/.github/blob/master/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).
- Be active in your role as an ambassador.
- **Guidelines** for AsyncAPI Ambassadors: 

>     The participation will be determined and checked annually. The minimum requirements for being ambassador are: To make **4 contributions per year** in form of articles, talks, videos, podcasts, presentations, driving initiatives...

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    The participation will be determined and checked annually. The minimum requirements for being an ambassador are as follows: make **4 contributions per year** in the form of articles, talks, videos, podcasts, presentations, driving initiatives, etc.
```

    Some clarifications on the type of contributions:
    

>     - Articles, videos, podcasts can be published on asyncapi.com/blog or other domains. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Articles, videos, and podcasts can be published on `asyncapi.com/blog` or other domains. 
```

    - Talks and presentations can be displayed at different events or workshops. Within it, AsyncAPI should appear at the core of the presentation. The presentation would never be used as a disguised marketing tool for other products/projects.

>     - Especial contributions should be driven to support the community or enhance its visibility (i.e. getting new sponsors or driving initiatives) 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Special contributions should be driven to support the community or enhance its visibility (i.e. getting new sponsors or driving initiatives) 
```

>     - Special contributions should be driven to support the community or enhance its visibility (i.e. getting new sponsors or driving initiatives) 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Special contributions should be driven to support the community or enhance its visibility (i.e., getting new sponsors or driving initiatives) 
```

>    3. If you were accepted as ambassador on the 5th of May 2022, you have already fulfilled the requirements. On the 5th of May 2023, we will check if you       did it again after the 5th of May 2022.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   3. If you were accepted as ambassador on the 5th of May 2022, you have already fulfilled the requirements. On the 5th of May 2023, we will check if you qualify again after the 5th of May 2022.
```

>     - If we did not identify the contributions, just let us know what that was.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - If we did not identify the contributions, just let us know.
```

>  The time as an ambassador can be renewed annually. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

```

This is too much repetition, so I think it's best removed 🤔

> ### Duties of AsyncAPI Ambassador:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Duties of AsyncAPI Ambassadors:
```

>     1. If contributors publishes 3 articles and propels 1 initiative about AsyncAPI in eight months, they will become ambassadors for the whole year.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    1. If contributors publish 3 articles and propel 1 initiative about AsyncAPI in eight months, they will become ambassadors for the whole year.
```

>     2. If contributors make 1 presentation, write 2 articles and propels 1 initiative, they will become ambassadors for the whole year.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    2. If contributors make 1 presentation, write 2 articles, and propel 1 initiative, they will become ambassadors for the whole year.
```

>     3. If you were accepted as ambassador on 5th of May 2022, it means you have already fulfilled the requirements. On 5th of May 2023 we will check if you did it again after 5th of May 2022.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    3. If you were accepted as ambassador on the 5th of May 2022, you have already fulfilled the requirements. On the 5th of May 2023, we will check if you did it again after the 5th of May 2022.
```

 The time as an ambassador can be renewed annually. 

> ### Benefits of being an ambassador:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Benefits of being an AsyncAPI ambassador:
```

> - Receiving special swag pack for Ambassadors (valued at $150 approx., including shipping cost).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Receive special swag pack for Ambassadors (valued at $150 approx., including shipping cost).
```

> - Receiving swags for participants of the conference or workshops (valued at $70 approx., including shipping cost).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Receive swag for conference or workshop participants (valued at $70 approx., including shipping cost).
```

- Free entry to AsyncAPI conferences.
- Community-wide recognition.
- All our respects for your contribution!

### Are you interested in becoming an official AsyncAPI Ambassador?

> The process of becoming an ambassador is very simple. Just go to the community repository and open a PR to edit the ambassadors.json file, and TSC will evaluate your candidacy!

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The process of becoming an ambassador is very simple. Go to the **community** repository and open a PR to edit the `ambassadors.json` file. The TSC will then evaluate your candidacy!
```

> That PR can be created not only by the ambassador candidate, but any community member can open up a PR to submit someones application (case when community member is too shy to get on the list).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
That PR doesn't have to be created by the ambassador candidate; any community member may open a PR to submit someone's application to the AsyncAPI Ambassador Program. 
```
